feat: Support for Platform "Gerrit" (#18961)
renovatebot/renovate: lib/modules/platform/gerrit/index.md

# Gerrit

## Authentication

First, ![HTTP access token](/assets/images/gerrit-http-password.png) for the bot account.

Let Renovate use your HTTP access token by doing _one_ of the following:

- Set your HTTP access token as a `password` in your `config.js` file
- Set your HTTP access token as an environment variable `RENOVATE_PASSWORD`
- Set your HTTP access token when you run Renovate in the CLI with `--password=`

Make sure this user is allowed to assign the Code-Review label with "+2" to his own changes or "automerge" can't work.

Remember to set `platform=gerrit` somewhere in your Renovate config file.

## Renovate PR/Branch-Model with Gerrit and needed Permissions

> If you use the "Code-Review" label and want `automerge` working, then you have to enable `gerritAutoApprove=true` in your renovate config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the "Code-Review" label and want `automerge` working, then you have to enable `gerritAutoApprove=true` in your Renovate config.
```

In this case the bot will automatically add the _Code-Review_ label with the value "+2" to each created "pull-request" (Gerrit-Change).

_Important: The login should be allowed to give +2 for the Code-Review label._

> **Additionally, the following two settings are mandatory. It will not work without these settings.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Also, you must use the following two settings. It will not work without these settings.**
```

```
{
  platformCommit: true, //allow to reuse the Change-Id
  gitNoVerify: ["push"], //allow-commit-hook to generate a Change-Id
}
```

> **Current Workarounds/Changes to git-based-commands:**

Reviewer: > But perhaps the complete part can/should be removed from the documentation and moved to a new Refactor-issue?

Yeah, let's move this section to a new refactor issue for the Gerrit platform. I don't expect Renovate users must know about internal function names. 😉

They should be moved behind the Platform interface (optionally) to avoid such workarounds.

> Perhaps it should be possible in the future to integrate a platform which is not based on git.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perhaps it should be possible in the future to integrate a platform which is not based on Git.
```

- registerBranch()
  A new method which allows to register virtual branches (not really exists) including commitSHA and whether they have been "modified" from another user. (see isBranchModified below)

- isBranchModified()

>   Checks if the last uploader was different to the renovate user and store this into "branchIsModified[branchname]". For Gerrit we rely on the above pre-registration in initRepo().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Checks if the last uploader was different to the Renovate user and store this into "branchIsModified[branchname]". For Gerrit we rely on the above pre-registration in `initRepo()`.
```

- isBranchConflicted()

>   This on tries to merge "origin/${branchName}" into baseBranch and check for conflicts. From initRepo() we fetch all open gerrit-changes to the local branch-name "origin/${branchName}" to let this work as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This one tries to merge "origin/${branchName}" into baseBranch and check for conflicts. From `initRepo()` we fetch all open gerrit-changes to the local branch-name "origin/${branchName}" to let this work as expected.
```

- isBranchBehindBase()

>   The Implementation now checks all branches (not remote only) but includes the `origin/` prefix in the match. This way the fake-branches checked out from initRepo() return the correct answer, and it should work for the other platforms too (because `remotes/origin/$branchname`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The implementation now checks all branches (not remote only) but includes the `origin/` prefix in the match. This way the fake-branches checked out from `initRepo()` return the correct answer, and it should work for the other platforms too (because `remotes/origin/$branchname`).
```

- deleteBranch()

>   Fails always because remote branches are not exists in real. This should be no real problem.

Reviewer: This sentence needs a rewrite.

Author: The last one only or the whole section?

The last sentence  could be changed to:

> Gerrit don't use branches, therefore `deleteBranch()` is unsupported and fails always silently.

But perhaps the complete part can/should be removed from the documentation and moved to a new Refactor-issue?

The Workarounds/Changes section is more or less a description of all my changes to the util/git module to get the Gerrit platform working. 
In my opinion it would be better to move these (all util/git) commands behind the platform interface. 
This way it could be possible later to integrate platforms without git too.

But that's a major refactoring and difficult to keep up-to-date because of the many places needed to change.

Reviewer 2: We don't like to move away from our gitlayer again, we had that long ago, where every platform needs to implement and duplicate so much code. It wasn't maintainable, so we should avoid in future.

Author: moving the gitlayer behind an interface does not mean to duplicate the implementation for the existing platforms.

Some commands like `isBranchModified()` can't be answered thru git commands for the Gerrit platform.
I don't really like my workarounds there (registerBranch), but i see no other option then moving the function to the platform interface.

Reviewer 3: We could abstract it behind the platform, with it defaulting to `git` if the platform doesn't provide the equivalent command

Author: > I tested this today on our internal Gerrit. First: really awesome stuff and very much looking forward to seeing it in action. Pretty much worked out-of-the-box in my tests.

Thanks for testing. Good to hear that it works.

> 
> Take the below please as small user feedback, not sure if that is in anyway feasible to easily implement or even needed :)
> 
> On open question we had, and might just be a documentation thing, is how to enable rebasing. Currently it still shows the checkbox, and as far as I know you can't tick/edit the comment on Gerrit? <img alt="image" width="804" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16856448/203557606-8435ebe6-b912-4554-8c52-6a506c7376d7.png">
> 
> It might be worth to add some documentation if that works and maybe even adjust the PR-content to mention how to do it to have the information self-contained.
> 

good point, after so much tests i've stopped reading the text inside these messages ;)

### at first to the message text
currently there is no option for a specific platform to influence the content. (correct me if i'm wrong)

Therefore documentation looks like the only option to translate the wording to the Gerrit context.
Some examples: 
 `**Schedule**: Branch creation...` -> `Change creation...`
`**Ignore**:  Close this PR...` -> `Vote with -2..`

### to the rebase part

currently i've enabled `platform.getRepoForceRebase() = true` for Gerrit. 
With the default renovate `rebaseWhen=auto` configuration this leads to automatically rebase of each Change if the baseBranch was updated. 
I like this behavior because each change will go thru CI (if attached to Gerrit).

But perhaps this leads to a behavior where it's impossible to disable these auto-rebase of changes and should be changed. 
I can get my wanted behavior with `rebaseWhen=behind-base-branch` even if getRepoForceRebase returns false. 
Comments? Suggestions?

But i don't see a real need for the "rebase checkbox" there. 
If it's not done automatically the developer can do this from Gerrit-UI....or is there a use-case?

If it's regardless needed, the only way of interacting with renovate is "reply" with a new message containing special commands. 
That's not trivial, because it's not possible to delete a message (after rebase was done).

Author: > We could abstract it behind the platform, with it defaulting to `git` if the platform doesn't provide the equivalent command

@rarkins Is this an requirement for this PR oder could be done after?

I've created #19065 for further discussion about the details.

## TODOS

- better comment/msg "Markdown" support, Gerrit 3.7 brings better support, but still no &lt;image&gt; or &lt;details&gt; support
- Images in Markdown-Comments, needs [Gerrit-Feature](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=2015)

## Features awaiting implementation

- setStability/setConfidence needs platform.setBranchStatus(...), what should we do with this information? Where to store it? As a gerrit-comment/message with special TAG?
- optimize/restructure gerrit-http calls (findPr returns more details then getPr...)

## Unsupported platform features/concepts

> - Creating issues (not a gerrit concept) / Renovate-Dashboard.

Reviewer: This is too much detail for regular Renovate users. Can you simplify this text? Regular users do not need to know about internal function names or implementation details.

# Gerrit

## Authentication

First, ![HTTP access token](/assets/images/gerrit-http-password.png) for the bot account.

Let Renovate use your HTTP access token by doing _one_ of the following:

- Set your HTTP access token as a `password` in your `config.js` file
- Set your HTTP access token as an environment variable `RENOVATE_PASSWORD`
- Set your HTTP access token when you run Renovate in the CLI with `--password=`

> Make sure this user is allowed to assign the Code-Review label with "+2" to his own changes or "automerge" can't work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure this user is allowed to assign the Code-Review label with "+2" to their own changes or "automerge" can't work.
```

Remember to set `platform=gerrit` somewhere in your Renovate config file.

## Renovate PR/Branch-Model with Gerrit and needed Permissions

If you use the "Code-Review" label and want `automerge` working, then you have to enable `gerritAutoApprove=true` in your Renovate config.

> In this case the bot will automatically add the _Code-Review_ label with the value "+2" to each created "pull-request" (Gerrit-Change).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case Renovate will automatically add the _Code-Review_ label with the value "+2" to each created "pull-request" (Gerrit-Change).
```

> _Important: The login should be allowed to give +2 for the Code-Review label._

Reviewer: Can you make this a material for mkdocs style admonition?

Author: I've tried, never used before....

The Renovate option `automergeType: "branch"` makes no sense for Gerrit, because there are no branches used.
It works similar to the default option `"pr"`.

> ## optional Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Optional features
```

> The [StabilityDays](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/#stabilitydays) feature can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`stabilityDays`](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/#stabilitydays) feature can be used.
```

It needs only a corresponding Gerrit-Label (default `Renovate-Stability`) and the permission to set the min/max value.

> There is no special Submit-Rule necessary to block submits for renovate usage, (i.e. can be _Trigger Votes_ only)
> because Renovate will query the label and prevent `automerge` accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't need a special Submit-Rule to block submits for Renovate usage, (i.e. can be _Trigger Votes_ only).
This is because Renovate will query the label and prevent `automerge` accordingly.
```

The same applies to the (upcoming beta?) feature [Merge-Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/).

The Gerrit-Label names can be configured in your Renovate config file:

```json
{
  "gerritLabelMapping": {
    "stabilityDaysLabel": "Renovate-StabilityDays",
    "mergeConfidenceLabel": "Renovate-Merge-Confidence"
  }
}
```

## TODOS

- Images in Markdown-Comments, needs [Gerrit-Feature](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=2015)

## Unsupported platform features/concepts

> - Creating issues (not a gerrit concept) / Renovate-Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Creating issues (not a Gerrit concept)
- Dependency Dashboard (needs issues first)
```

How about this?

> ## Known Problems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known problems
```

> ### PR-title don't match first commit-msg line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PR-title doesn't match first commit-msg line
```

> Sometimes the pull-request title parameter to `platform.createPr(...)/updatePr(...)` is different from the first line of the commit message. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes the pull-request title parameter to `platform.createPr(...)/updatePr(...)` is different from the first line of the commit message.
```

For example:

> Commit-Message=`Update keycloak.version to v21` \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commit-Message=`Update keycloak.version to v21`
```

Do we need that slash here?

# Gerrit

## Authentication

First, ![HTTP access token](/assets/images/gerrit-http-password.png) for the Renovate account.

Let Renovate use your HTTP access token by doing _one_ of the following:

- Set your HTTP access token as a `password` in your `config.js` file
- Set your HTTP access token as an environment variable `RENOVATE_PASSWORD`
- Set your HTTP access token when you run Renovate in the CLI with `--password=`

Make sure this user is allowed to assign the Code-Review label with "+2" to their own changes or "automerge" can't work.

Remember to set `platform=gerrit` somewhere in your Renovate config file.

## Renovate PR/Branch-Model with Gerrit and needed Permissions

If you use the "Code-Review" label and want `automerge` working, then you have to enable `gerritAutoApprove=true` in your Renovate config.
In this case Renovate will automatically add the _Code-Review_ label with the value "+2" to each created "pull-request" (Gerrit-Change).

> !!! note
> The login should be allowed to give +2 for the Code-Review label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! note
    The login must be allowed to give +2 for the Code-Review label.
```

Material for MkDocs admonitions follow this pattern:

```markdown
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! type-of-admontion
    Four spaces before the text of the admonition.
```

The `prettier-ignore` line blocks Prettier from removing the four spaces, which in turn messes up the admonition.

# Gerrit

## Supported Gerrit versions

> Renovate supports all Gerrit 3.x versions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Renovate supports all Gerrit 3.x versions.
Support for Gerrit is currently _experimental_, meaning that it _might_ still have some undiscovered bugs or design limitations, and that we _might_ need to change functionality in a non-backwards compatible manner in a non-major release.
```

> First, ![HTTP access token](/assets/images/gerrit-http-password.png) for the Renovate account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<figure markdown>
  ![Gerrit HTTP access token](/assets/images/gerrit-http-password.png){ loading=lazy }
  <figcaption>First, create a HTTP access token for the Renovate account.</figcaption>
</figure>
```

I think this is the correct syntax to get the image into Material for MkDocs with the text underneath the image. I'm also enabling lazy loading for the image.

Links to the Material for MkDocs manual:

- https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/images/#image-captions
- https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/images/#image-lazy-loading

Author: ok, i've tried to "preview" this (`docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v ${PWD}/tmp:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material`), 
but there was no `mkdocs.yml` and have to write my own...

```yaml
site_name: Renovate
theme:
  name: material
markdown_extensions:
  - md_in_html
```

The image looks okay, but the lazy-loading was printed below the image....

What is the right approach for testing these generated markdown files locally?

Author: With this config the lazy-loading works fine.

```yaml
site_name: Renovate
theme:
  name: material
markdown_extensions:
  - md_in_html
  - admonition
  - pymdownx.details
  - pymdownx.superfences
  - attr_list
```

Reviewer: We're building the docs in with MkDocs + Material for MkDocs over on the https://github.com/renovatebot/renovatebot.github.io repository.

That's why there are no build steps in the main repository. 😉

Renovate will now add the _Code-Review_ label with the value "+2" to each of its "pull requests" (Gerrit-Change).

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! note
    The bot's user account must have permission to give +2 for the Code-Review label.

The Renovate option `automergeType: "branch"` makes no sense for Gerrit, because there are no branches used to create pull requests.
It works similar to the default option `"pr"`.

## Optional features

You can use the `statusCheckNames` configuration to map any of the available branch checks (like `minimumReleaseAge`, `mergeConfidence`, and so on) to a Gerrit label.

For example, if you want to use the [Merge Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/) feature and map the result of the Merge Confidence check to your Gerrit label "Renovate-Merge-Confidence" you can configure:

```json
{
  "statusCheckNames": {
    "mergeConfidence": "Renovate-Merge-Confidence"
  }
}
```

## Unsupported platform features/concepts

- Creating issues (not a Gerrit concept)
- Dependency Dashboard (needs issues first)

## Known problems

### PR title is different from first commit message

> Sometimes the pull-request title parameter to `platform.createPr(...)/updatePr(...)` is different from the first line of the commit message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sometimes the PR title passed to the Gerrit platform code is different from the first line of the commit message.
```

# Gerrit

> 

Reviewer: Can you add a section where you explain what versions of Gerrit we support?

The Gerrit community only supports the last 3 releases.

> ## Supported Versions
> 
> The Gerrit open-source community actively supports the last 3 releases on a best effort basis. Older releases are not actively maintained but may still receive important fixes (e.g. security fixes), but there is no guarantee for this. Which fixes are backported to these old releases is decided on a case by case basis.
> 
> End of life for old release happens implicitly when a new Gerrit version is released, and is announced via the [project news](https://www.gerritcodereview.com/news.html) and on the mailing list.
> 
> The following table shows the current level of support for Gerrit releases:
> 
> Version | Support Status | Notes
> -- | -- | --
> 3.8 | Active |  
> 3.7 | Active |  
> 3.6 | Active |  
> 3.5 | EOL | EOL since May 19, 2023
> 3.4 | EOL | EOL since Nov 9, 2022
> 3.3 | EOL | EOL since May 24, 2022
> 3.2 | EOL | EOL since Dec 7, 2021
> 3.1 | EOL | EOL since May 19, 2021
> 3.0 | EOL | EOL since December 1st, 2020
> 2.16 | EOL with Support | EOL since June 1st, 2020
> 2.15 | EOL | EOL since November 15th, 2019
> 2.14 | EOL | EOL since May 31st, 2019
> 2.13 | EOL |  
> pre 2.13 | EOL |

> ## Supported Gerrit Versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported Gerrit versions
```

Let's drop the final capitalized word.

Author: I've removed the `minimumReleaseAgeLabel` support, it don't make really sense for Gerrit and Renovate.

All Gerrit 3.x Versions should be working.

> The current implementation uses the "hashtags" Feature from Gerrit and therefore needs a Gerrit version with [NoteDB](https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/Documentation/note-db.html) backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current implementation uses Gerrit's "hashtags" feature.
Therefore you must use a Gerrit version that uses the [NoteDB](https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/Documentation/note-db.html) backend.
```

How about something like this? Please check if this is correct before applying!

Do we mean:

- You (as Gerrit user) must use NoteDB with Gerrit, or
- You (as Gerrit user) must use a version of Gerrit that includes NoteDB, or
- Something else?

Author: > You (as Gerrit user) must use a version of Gerrit that includes NoteDB

That's the requirement.

</figure>

> Let Renovate use your HTTP access token by doing _one_ of the following:

Reviewer 2: do we really need this basics here?

Author: I think yes, this http-token will not be used normally from Gerrit users.

> Gerrit `2.x` with NoteDB (only in `2.15` and `2.16`) is not tested, but could work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We did not test Gerrit `2.x` with NoteDB (only in `2.15` and `2.16`), but could work.
```

Let's be clear about _who_ tested Gerit 2.x. 😉

> We did not test Gerrit `2.x` with NoteDB (only in `2.15` and `2.16`), but could work.

Author: yes

<figure markdown>
  ![Gerrit HTTP access token](/assets/images/gerrit-http-password.png){ loading=lazy }
  <figcaption>First, create a HTTP access token for the Renovate account.</figcaption>
</figure>

Let Renovate use your HTTP access token by doing _one_ of the following:

> - Set your HTTP access token as a `password` in your `config.js` file
> - Set your HTTP access token as an environment variable `RENOVATE_PASSWORD`
> - Set your HTTP access token when you run Renovate in the CLI with `--password=`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set your HTTP access token as a `password` in your `config.js` file, or
- Set your HTTP access token as an environment variable `RENOVATE_PASSWORD`, or
- Set your HTTP access token when you run Renovate in the CLI with `--password=`
```

I hope that adding `,or` to the end of the items make it clearer that you should use _one_ of these methods.

> This user must be allowed to assign the Code-Review label with "+2" to their own changes for "automerge" to work.

Reviewer: It's not clear to me what "This user" refers to. I think we mean "The Gerrit user account that Renovate will work through", or something like that?

Author: @HonkingGoose Perhaps we should mention that the username parameter is needed too? 
I'm not sure if this is a general requirement for all/other platforms supported by Renovate.

> Remember to set `platform=gerrit` somewhere in your Renovate config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must set `platform=gerrit` in your Renovate config file.
```

Let's use _must_ to indicate requirements, and drop `somewhere`.

> ## Renovate PR/Branch-Model with Gerrit and needed Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Renovate PR/Branch-Model with Gerrit and needed permissions
```

The Renovate option `automergeType: "branch"` makes no sense for Gerrit, because there are no branches used.
It works similar to the default option `"pr"`.

## Optional Features

> The [stabilityDays](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/#stabilitydays) feature can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`minimumReleaseAge`](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/#minimumreleaseage) feature can be used.
```

We renamed `stabilityDays` to `minimumReleaseAge`.

>     The login must be allowed to give +2 for the Code-Review label.

Author: okay

> The Renovate option `automergeType: "branch"` makes no sense for Gerrit, because there are no branches used.

Reviewer: I suggested a rewrite of this sentence, but it was rejected. We still need to rewrite, because `because there are no branches used.` does not say _who_ or _what_ doesn't use branches.

Open for suggestions!

Author: ... to create pull requests.

> It works similar to the default option `"pr"`.

Reviewer: It's not clear what "It" refers to here. Are you referring to the `automergeType: "branch"` setting?

Author: yes, if you configure renovate with "automergeType=branch" it will work similar to automergeType=pr because no branches are created in Gerrit, only PRs.

## Optional features

> The [Merge Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/) feature can be used.
> It needs only a corresponding Gerrit-Label and the permission to set the min/max value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [Merge Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/) feature on the Gerrit platform.
For this to work, Renovate needs a Gerrit-Label and permission to set the min/max value.
```

> The same applies to the feature [Merge-Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same applies to the [Merge Confidence feature](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/).
```

> The same applies to the (upcoming beta?) feature [Merge-Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same applies to the feature [Merge-Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/).
```

You can use the `statusCheckNames` configuration to map any of the available branch checks (i.e. minimumReleaseAge, mergeConfidence, ...)
to a Gerrit label.

> For example you want to use the [Merge Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/) feature and map result of this check
> to your Gerrit label "Renovate-Merge-Confidence" you can configure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example you want to use the [Merge Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/) feature and map result of this check
to your Gerrit label "Renovate-Merge-Confidence" you can configure:
```
```suggestion
For example, if you want to use the [Merge Confidence](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/) feature and map the result of the Merge Confidence check to your Gerrit label "Renovate-Merge-Confidence" you can configure:
```

- One sentence per line
- Clarify what the sentence is talking about

    "mergeConfidenceLabel": "Renovate-Merge-Confidence"
  }
}
```

## TODOS

> - Images in Markdown-Comments, needs [Gerrit-Feature](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=2015)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Images in Markdown comments, needs [Gerrit-Feature](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=2015)
```

## Unsupported platform features/concepts

- Creating issues (not a Gerrit concept)
- Dependency Dashboard (needs issues first)

## Known problems

> ### PR-title doesn't match first commit-msg line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PR title is different from first commit message
```

How about something like this?

> Sometimes the pull-request title parameter to `platform.createPr(...)/updatePr(...)` is different from the first line of the commit message.

Reviewer: This sentence needs a rewrite. I think something like this pattern would work:

> Sentence that explains the basic problem.
> Sentence that explains the technical stuff about `platform.createPr(...)/updatePr(...)`.
> Then show the example, as we do now.

Author: @HonkingGoose okay, i would try to explain the problem here:

Basic problem:
Gerrit has no separate title field beyond the first commit-msg line.
In renovate these two (title and first-line of commit) can be differ.
I'm not sure if this was intended (by Renovate) or more a small bug?

My implementation detect these title/first-commit-msg-line difference and update the commit message accordingly.

What of these details we should put into the documentation? 
Ultimately, this makes no difference to the user in terms of the end result.

Reviewer: I'll let @rarkins decide what the docs should explain here. I don't know enough about the technical side to make a decision. :upside_down_face:

For example:

Commit-Message=`Update keycloak.version to v21` \
Pull-Request-Title=`Update keycloak.version to v21 (major)`

> In this case the Gerrit-Platform implementation tries to detect this and change the commit-message on a second patch-set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case the Gerrit-Platform implementation tries to detect this and change the commit-message in a second patch-set.
```

I think you mean _in_ a second patch-set? _On_ feels like a typo to me.

# Gerrit

## Supported Gerrit Versions

> All Gerrit 3.x Versions should be working.

Reviewer: Do you really intend for us to support `3.x` versions that Gerrit themselves have end-of-lifed?

I would expect us to match the support policy of upstream Gerrit? That makes our lives easier, as we don't have to support old stuff.

Author: I personally do not provide any support ;)

If you want to match with the Gerrit support policy then you can do this.
I just wanted to show which versions it should work with.

Maybe you should write this section yourself.

Reviewer: > I personally do not provide any support ;)

Haha. 😄

> If you want to match with the Gerrit support policy then you can do this. I just wanted to show which versions it should work with.

If we say works with `2.x` readers of the docs will "expect" support for `2.x`, even if upstream Gerrit does not anymore. So we should only list things that we want to support.

@rarkins @viceice what kind of support policy do you guys want to follow for the new Gerrit platform support? The Gerrit maintainers support the _last three_ versions.

> Maybe you should write this section yourself.

I'll do that, once I know the maintainers policy. 😉

Reviewer 2: yes, we normally only support maintained platform versions. but we support older versions with best effort, that mostly needs community contribution as we don't have such old platforms to test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate supports all Gerrit 3.x versions.
```

Let's rewrite a bit.

The current implementation uses the "hashtags" Feature from Gerrit and therefore needs a Gerrit version with [NoteDB](https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/Documentation/note-db.html) backend.

> Gerrit 2.x with NoteDB (available only in 2.15 and 2.16 only) are untested but could work too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gerrit `2.x` with NoteDB (only in `2.15` and `2.16`) is not tested, but could work.
```

## Authentication

<figure markdown>
  ![Gerrit HTTP access token](/assets/images/gerrit-http-password.png){ loading=lazy }
  <figcaption>First, create a HTTP access token for the Renovate account.</figcaption>
</figure>

Let Renovate use your HTTP access token by doing _one_ of the following:

- Set your HTTP access token as a `password` in your `config.js` file
- Set your HTTP access token as an environment variable `RENOVATE_PASSWORD`
- Set your HTTP access token when you run Renovate in the CLI with `--password=`

> Make sure this user is allowed to assign the Code-Review label with "+2" to their own changes or "automerge" can't work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This user must be allowed to assign the Code-Review label with "+2" to their own changes for "automerge" to work.
```

Remember to set `platform=gerrit` somewhere in your Renovate config file.

## Renovate PR/Branch-Model with Gerrit and needed Permissions

> If you use the "Code-Review" label and want `automerge` working, then you have to enable `autoApprove=true` in your Renovate config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the "Code-Review" label and want `automerge` working: you must set `autoApprove=true` in your Renovate config.
```

> In this case Renovate will automatically add the _Code-Review_ label with the value "+2" to each created "pull-request" (Gerrit-Change).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate will now add the _Code-Review_ label with the value "+2" to each of its "pull requests" (Gerrit-Change).
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! note
    The login must be allowed to give +2 for the Code-Review label.

> The Renovate option `automergeType: "branch"` makes no sense for Gerrit, because there are no branches used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Gerrit platform does not use Git branches.
This means you should _not_ set `automergeType: "branch"`, as it's useless here.
```

Author: > The Gerrit platform does not use Git branches.

That's not true, they don't need Branches for PRs.

> It works similar to the default option `"pr"`.

Reviewer: Why do you mention the default `automerge:pr` setting here? What's the action the user should take after reading this section of the docs?

Author: The user should not try to use these mode.
It makes no sense for Gerrit and if you try it, it works almost identically to the `pr` mode.

> ## Optional Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Optional features
```

The [`minimumReleaseAge`](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/#minimumreleaseage) feature can be used.

> It needs only a corresponding Gerrit-Label (default `Renovate-Stability`) and the permission to set the min/max value.

Reviewer: Do you really intend to have a `Renovate-Stability` label?

Author: there is no default for this configuration anymore.

You don't need a special Submit-Rule to block submits for Renovate usage (i.e. can be _Trigger Votes_ only).
This is because Renovate will query the label and prevent `automerge` accordingly.

The same applies to the [Merge Confidence feature](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/).

The Gerrit-Label names can be configured in your Renovate config file:

```json
{
  "gerritLabelMapping": {
    "minimumReleaseAgeLabel": "Renovate-MinimumReleaseAge",
    "mergeConfidenceLabel": "Renovate-Merge-Confidence"
  }
}
```

## TODOS

> - Images in Markdown comments, needs [Gerrit-Feature](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/gerrit/issues/detail?id=2015)

Reviewer: It's not clear from the list item what's going wrong with Images in Markdown comments, or why the reader should care about the list item. 😉

Author: It should explain this:

![image](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/assets/5861866/5a63b56b-196e-43f4-ac04-6a4a85da98bc)

but i can remove this list completely.
